I'm vegan and my kids are too why
because I forced them to be Mayim Bialik
is not famous for being vegan she is
famous for one reason and one reason
only and that is that she gives the
audience the reassuring sense that they
too could be wealthy and successful
while having absolutely no talent I
don't mean no obvious talent I don't
mean apparently no talent I mean no
talent I mean my kids love They Might Be
Giants and Marxist philosophy so I kind
of feel like my work is done here you
know I pity your children more than you
could possibly know
both of my parents were hardcore
communists they were even extremist
communists I think it's fair to say but
even they admitted that the philosophy
of Karl Marx really when it comes right
down to it is just a bunch of boring
aimless combined with very
crude misconceptions about classical
economics have you tried reading
Catholic philosophy and my father who
during the time I knew him was a
die-hard atheist and unsurprisingly for
communists pretty much opposed the
church even he would have to admit that
like the the devout Christian side of
the philosophy aisle had a lot more
going for it than the Marxist side and
um I as a nihilistic atheist but also an
anti-communist would have to admit the
same thing maybe try reading Blaise
Pascal maybe try reading a Soren
Kierkegaard if you're impressed if
you're impressed by the philosophy of
Karl Marx you may be an idiot you may be
a child or you may be an idiot raising
your children and inculcating them with
a horrible debunk political philosophy
that is oh yeah right
responsible for the mass murder of tens
of millions of people economic
catastrophe economic collapse on an
unbelievable scale the only thing that
vegans can't get from the foods that we
eat is vitamin b12 which you can totally
take a supplement for or just don't wash
your veggies very well because it's in
the dirt that is really irresponsible
anti scientific advice to give people no
you cannot cannot
on dirt as a source of vitamin b12 in a
youtube video that is a wealthy
celebrity acting under the pretense to
give health advice to millions of
unsuspecting parents in America no no no
you should not tell people that it's a
viable substitute just to refrain from
washing their fruits and vegetables to
rely on trace amounts of dirt as a
source of vitamin b12 b12 deficiency is
not a vegan problem it is a human beings
on earth problem the rates of vitamin
b12 deficiency amongst people of all
socio-economic strata in Venezuela is
unbelievable people of all ages living
in poverty living on the coast living in
the mountains when the government of
Venezuela did a survey to look at B
vitamin deficiency they found it was
endemic throughout their whole society
and nobody in the study is vegan I mean
fewer way below 1% of the people in the
study was vegan it was a general
population study had nothing to do with
veganism in Israel when the government
of Israel did an inquiry into vitamin
deficiencies special interest in B
vitamins like this b12 they were looking
at different ethnic segments within
Israel now why is this it's because
there are Russian Jews in Israel and
there are like Arachne Jew so Jews who
fled from Iraq and they eat totally
different diets just for cultural
reasons and they assume when they
started this study like they were going
to find some ethnic groups had b12
deficiency and some didn't based on
culture and national look maybe the
Russians do and maybe these people don't
maybe some people eat fish and some
people eat something wrong they filmed
incredibly high levels of b12 deficiency
in all of the population groups most
Western national governments now are
recommending that everyone all the
meat-eaters get b12 fortification i
believe the united states now they say
it's for everyone over 45 in some
countries they might be recommending it
for ever'one over 65 or over for
five or thirty five or they may be
recommending it for young children
whatever there are varying
recommendations reflecting a widespread
global awareness that b12 deficiency is
a problem for everyone the people who do
wash their vegetables and the people who
don't the people who eat dirt and the
people who don't the people who are
vegan and the people who eat meat it's a
problem everywhere and you're engaging
in a kind of naturalistic fallacy in
wanting to imagine in olden times people
didn't struggle with b12 deficiency
that's not what the evidence indicates
probably our species just evolved with
and coped with horrible levels of b12
deficiency all the time for most of our
evolutionary history we had all kinds of
constant chronic health problems we
didn't have a cure from malaria in
ancient times either we didn't have any
way to cope with you know a simple
condition like amoebic dysentery
once you got amoebic dysentery it's
quite likely you'd have it until you
died in ancient times and precisely that
fact the fact that probably in ancient
times we were carrying a huge load of
parasites with us parasitic worms
infections like amoebic dysentery so on
and so forth it's quite possible that is
the reason why b12 deficiency whoo-hooo
wasn't an issue but for all we know
empirically it was my children are
rosy-cheeked and alert
they have good endurance for sports they
are Hardy they are hardly ever sick this
kind of argument is never gonna work
it's never gonna fly there are people
who feed their children a diet of bacon
and eggs for breakfast every morning who
will say exactly the same thing I have
spoken to one young woman who was raised
vegetarian so the only source of
cholesterol in her diet was basically
cheese and milk and she had chronic
emergency health problems caused by the
cholesterol in our diet and she looked
good she was not fat she was not old she
was slim she looked hopeful that didn't
look like anything was wrong with her
guess what something's wrong with her
you can be rosy cheeked and you know
have the twinkle in your eye right up to
the day you drop dead from a heart
it doesn't take a lot of sophistication
to be aware of that possibility and
there are so many families who are gonna
boast their kids are healthy eating
steak for dinner every night so if you
think you're gonna make progress that's
what you're not I'm 40 years old I'm in
much better shape than a uh I got a
mosquito bite see that I got I got the
mosquito bite because I'm vegan
hey I'm away from the shape that any one
of my family was at age 40 i benchpress
240 pounds currently 110 kilograms I'm
delighted with my health outcomes but
guess what even so to a very real extent
my health what you're seeing right now
is skin deep and yeah I could have a
stroke tomorrow I could die of a heart
attack being vegan doesn't make you
invincible and peak vegan is not an
excuse to engage in the same faceless
circuitous self-serving logic that meat
eaters engage in what they're trying to
justify and glorify their dietary advice
vegan children do tend to be on the
slighter side because statistically
speaking they're not ingesting the
hormones that are in the dairy and the
meat products which so many of our
children in this country are raised
eating you're really indulging in
another anti scientific argument here
and it's an argument the meat eaters
will use against you the meat eaters
will say oh no no you got to get those
hormones by eating the beef by eating
even things like bull testicles stuff
like that there you go
hey get a little bit so you got the
shadow right it's on all sides
what's being claimed about hormones in
the diet as a general scientific
principle you have to recognize large
mammals engage in carnivorous activity
and when they when they ingest the
hormones of their prey they're not very
directly affected by those hormones
their digestive system
the acids involved in breaking down food
quite well with hormones so I've met and
spoken to men who literally ate the
Bulls testicles men who ate you know
snake venom all these things that people
take for their hormonal effects if a
lion were really directly affected by
the hormones of its prey every time it
ate a male prey animal and every time it
ate a female per animal you'd see
dramatic changes in that Lions health
and appearance if a lion were affected
by eating raw flesh raw blood and even
the testicles of its prey to the same
extent that a human body builder is
affected by applying testosterone cream
to the skin we'd be seeing dramatic
changes throughout all mammals mammals
that even only engage in very occasional
current reverse activity the reason why
testosterone supplements are given as a
gel or a cream that goes on the skin
that enters in skin is that it's much
easier to get hormones to have an effect
on human biology human physiology by
having the drugs enter through your skin
or of course by injecting them that's
quite easy whereas it's quite difficult
to to influence your hormones through
food through eating something like meat
and if you subscribe to this pseudo
scientific view if you promote this view
that somehow human beings are like a
sponge directly soaking up and reacting
to the hormones that are in meat that's
only going to reinforce the old
nineteenth-century mentality about
getting physically strong getting tough
especially for men by eating animal
blood and animal testicles I knew a guy
who was a competitive boxer in France
this is probably 50 years ago because
that talk to me was a pretty old guy
maybe I'm overestimating whatever it was
only thirty years ago and he and other
athletes would go to the slaughterhouse
and directly drank hot blood from Bulls
hot blood from horses male horses and I
think yeah there was another guy I knew
and he participated in eating the
testicles of bulls maybe also of rain
and this kind of thing um these are were
like 19th century and earlier ideas that
by eating those those things you're
gonna massively affect the hormone
balance of your body and have an
advantage now I am NOT gonna say to you
that eating that type of food has zero
effect on the hormone balance of your
body it's not zero and there's been a
lot of discussion about the negative
impacts of drinking cow milk as adult
humans and how that influences hormones
your body however you have to recognize
it's a tiny fraction of the face it's
like a barely measurable barely
perceptible impact in your body it's not
like the man suddenly is growing a
thicker beard after speaking false
testicles they're these barely
perceptible effects compared to
bodybuilders taking hormones to their
skin dramatic effect and those hormones
bodybuilders take there are warnings on
the label saying do not apply this and
then hug your wife like any contact with
your wife's skin it's gonna have
calamitous effects on our home about
hormones entering through the skin big
impact hormones entering through
injection big impact but hormones
entering through the mouth and the
digestive system just as Lions have to
be able to tolerate the hormones in
their prey human beings like pretty much
all the big ant mammals moves to say big
and all the big mammals were set up to
endure and cope with quite a lot of
hormone flux from the things coming in
in our diet I don't want my children to
be judgmental and annoying
[Music]